I've spent a lot of time mapping out the
architecture inside my own clawed
operating system. The actual structure
underneath the file system, the skill
composition, and the way that everything
connects together. And here's what I
think most people are missing in theirs.
They're building dashboards to display
tasks, but dashboards are just a
temporary problem. Just look at claw
desktop today or even the new agents
view. Anthropic are already starting to
aggregate context, surface the right
information, and remove the need for
half the dashboards that people are
building right now. 3 months from now,
most of these custom dashboards are
going to look completely redundant. And
I'm not even biased because I've built
one, too. But your workflows, that's
completely different. So, Anthropic's
aim is to give the majority of users a
decent result out of the box. What they
can't do is build the exact system that
your business needs. So, that's still
down to you. And that's why the
architecture really matters. The
architecture underneath is what gets you
past the limitations of claw code that
anthropic won't be solving for you. So
in this video, I'm going to show you
what's actually worth your time. The
architecture underneath the agentic
operating system, the way that we
structure skills to support that, and
the mistakes you're probably making when
you're building these systems for
yourself. [music] So at the end of this
video, you'll basically have the setup
pattern that you can steal for your own
workflows. So let's get straight into
it. And before we get into the
architecture itself, I want to show you
something. Now, when I started mapping
out my own clawed operating system, I
literally started here. What was my goal
and how can we get past the limitations
of the LLMs as they are today. So, we
had a list of nine different things
which were effectively limiting factors
in cyclcore code. Things driven by the
fact that context recall is really poor.
Claude is a generalist and that there's
no way to actually separate the folders
inside claw code so that you get all of
your outputs cleanly into one place or
that you could actually access it from
anywhere. But if you actually look at
this today as we are eight out of nine
of these things will get solved by
anthropic themselves. So everything to
do with context recall and memory
anthropic is actually already working on
things like that. They're working on
memory features, project level context
and all of that is moving really
quickly. They've released scheduled
tasks inside the desktop app which
solves our multi-step workflows on a
schedule. You can also run cron jobs
inside cloud code in the terminal. The
next three, as we mentioned, are all
about separation of context in terms of
the outputs that it delivers. At some
point, Anthropic will just change the
way in which outputs are displayed. And
you're already seeing that in the
desktop app where they now give you
links directly to the assets that are
being produced. And of course we got
claude code channels and dispatch and a
bunch of other stuff to access claude
from telegram from our mobile from
wherever. So this one goal of the clawed
operating system or agentic operating
system of having repeatable processes
with consistent highquality outputs will
not get solved by anthropic because
overall anthropic are building claude to
be a good generalist and it's going to
stay a generalist because as soon as
they start niching down on specific
workflows they're effectively making the
product worse for everyone else. So they
can't ship a model that's going to be
brilliant at your specific copywriting
style, your client onboarding process,
or the way that you compose meta ads,
for example. So we've got to fix then
the problem [clears throat] between a
good generalist output that's largely
driven by the model and giving it the
exact output or giving you the exact
output from claw code that your business
needs. And if you spent much time with
Claude code so far, you'll probably
recognize that this is what skills are.
So skills are how you turn a generalist
into a specialist. They're how you take
Claude from good enough for most things
out the box with a good model like Opus
4.7 to indistinguishable from how you'd
actually manually do it yourself. That's
the goal of where we want to get to. So
this means that skills aren't just a
nice to have inside your Aentos. They're
the one part of the architecture that
compounds in value over time as your
skills get better. So everything else
anthropic is going to fix eventually.
So, if you're going to invest your time
anywhere in the architecture of your
Claude OS, I'd highly recommend
investing in improving the architecture
here. Now, I haven't just got this far
to tell you that skills are important.
You probably know that already, but the
way most people are connecting and
building skills right now is actually
the problem. Now, there are two ways
people are getting skills wrong, and I
see both of them constantly. So, mistake
number one is having your skills in
isolation. So, for example, you download
a copywriting skill. You're then asking
Claude to write a LinkedIn post for you.
So, it writes one. You're going to copy
that out. You're going to then ask
Claude to schedule it with another
skill. And effectively, you're manually
chaining those together. So, you've used
Claude code in the same way in which
you'd probably progress from something
like chat GPT or Claude in the desktop.
You're asking a question, it's giving
you a draft, you're then asking it to
schedule with another skill. You are
still the intermediary connecting your
skills. And mistake two, which is
becoming more prolific, is building out
mega skills. So people feel the pain of
mistake one and they actually
overcorrect. So they build one giant
skill that tries to do a full end-to-end
process in one skill. So it's a skilled
MD that combines the research, the
writing, the repurposing, the
scheduling, and the posting all in one
single file. And that sounds like a
really intelligent way to do it, but
actually what you've done there is just
thrown away everything that made skills
useful in the first place. So what you
lose with mega skills is modularity.
That copywriting logic is now locked
inside one giant flow and you can't
reuse that copywriting then for emails,
for newsletters, for your landing page.
You've then by default lost
maintainability. So every time you want
to change your copyrightiting style,
you're going to have to go and change it
inside your email flow, your newsletter
flow, your landing flow, and your social
post flow because actually you've pigeon
holed your copywriting inside each of
those individual skills without actually
pulling it out as a separate skill. And
the last thing you've lost is
progressive disclosure. So anthropic
specifically designed skills to only
load the context that's needed. A mega
skill, you're by default loading in too
much context at once. And you might
think this is fine, but what you're
going to experience is a quality drop.
So you might be wondering then what is
the right answer? And it is to be honest
somewhere in between those two. So you
want to build small focused modular
skills then wire them together into
something bigger with an orchestrator.
And that's how the architecture of your
clawed operating system is supposed to
support better outputs. So stop thinking
of skills as the system. They're
components of the system. And if you
build them as little reusable building
blocks designed to connect together and
disclose information progressively from
day one, then you can start to actually
stack them into something way more
powerful and build out these skill
systems much much quicker. So we've got
the components as skills. Why not wire
them into something that actually runs
end to end? And this is the pattern that
makes a Claude operating system actually
useful. It's one that Claude isn't going
to solve for you. And we call it a skill
system. So a skill system is really
simple. It's an orchestrator skill with
an instruction set wired around multiple
smaller skills. So the orchestrator is
effectively the brain and the child
skills are the modular components that
do the actual work and pass information
back to the brain. Much in the same way
that when you deploy sub agents inside
Claude, we have an orchestrator in our
main instance and then individual skills
or individual agents are passed a
section of the context and they return
the output to the orchestrator just
chains them together end to end to
achieve a business goal. And the best
way to show you this is to show you an
actual example that we've just launched
inside the Aentic Academy. So this is a
diagram of two skill systems that we run
inside our own setup. So on the left
we've got our video clip short form and
as it sounds you upload your own video,
you walk away and it spits out five
short form clips ready for you to post.
And next to it we have video to article.
Similar logic you upload your own video
and it converts that into a piece of
long- form written content that we can
use as a lead magnet or as a document
for example in my school community. So
both of these systems have some
component parts or skills that get
reused. So these two for example and
then they both have individual skills
that are not related between the skill
systems that are bespoke to that
specific process but can still be reused
by other skill systems. And it becomes
even more obvious when you start talking
about scaling these systems to multiple
skill systems. So now we've got two more
skill systems. We've got the same two
that we had before and we've also got
social carousel generation which turns
source material into multi-step LinkedIn
carousels. and then slide generation
which turns a topic into a full
interactive HTML slide deck. So now you
can start to see that the shared skills
has increased to four. So multiple of
these systems now use four steps
including factchecking to verify claims
and figures and humanizing where we
rewrite in our own personal brand voice.
And then they still all have individual
pipeline specific skills. And then all
of these because they're inside our
clawed operating system are supported by
our shared context. So they've got our
brand voice, our learnings and so on
which feed into all of these skills and
all of these skill systems in turn. So
everything we're building is all built
in a really modular way and we're
treating skills as individual building
blocks. So when I go in and improve a
skill like the fact checker skill, every
system that uses it 1 2 3 4 gets better
automatically by just updating in one
single place. Now I could have
absolutely built any of these as one big
mega skill. So, social carousels, for
example, could have all of these
individual skills inside that mega
skill. And honestly, if I was building
this for the first time, that would be
quicker to build than actually breaking
these out into modular skills that can
be reused. But the problem comes when
the other three systems all want to
leverage the same four skills that I've
embedded into the social carousel
system. When we want to reuse some of
the logic, it's basically going to be
buried inside that mega skills. So it's
difficult to pull out and you're
effectively going to be rewriting these
skills from scratch every single time
for all of these different endto-end
processes or end to-end goals that we
want to achieve. So yes, mega skills are
faster to build the first time, but for
the second, third, and 10th time, being
able to actually reutilize skills in a
skill system is going to save you a ton
of time. So actually as you build out
your skills and make them better, your
system gets easier to maintain and you
get faster at building out full systems
which are your end-to-end business
workflows. The thing that Claude
themselves is not going to solve for
you. One thing we've also built out to
make it easy for a user to actually
personalize these to their own setup is
every single one of these skill systems
has an onboarding. So you configure
certain things when you're onboarded to
a skill. And if we go to the slide
skill, which turns a topic, outline or
transcript into a production ready HTML
presentation, when the user [snorts]
first sets this up, they're asked about
their style preferences, which can pull
from your design system. They're asked
about Mac slides, whether they want it
to export as a PDF every time, and
whether they want to autoopen it in
browser. So, a user configures this when
they first set it up. So, once you
understand this pattern of orchestrator
skill and child skills, you can think of
them as parent and children skills. and
connecting them up all together with a
single skill.md prompt as we've seen
with these 00 labeled skill systems. You
can actually start building your own
skill systems from your own existing
skills. So naturally, we've gone one
step further and created a skill system
creator which as it sounds helps you
based on your existing skills and what
skills you want to build on exactly the
process you're looking for. It will then
basically go out and search existing
skills that you have and work out where
they can be reutilized or adapted to
build out this end-to-end system. It's
then all packaged up into a format that
can be deployed using a oneline
installation script. It's the same way
we deploy it to users inside the
community. They insert one line and
they're run through the onboarding. All
the skills are automatically put inside
the folder. They do their configuration
and then they're ready to get outputs
straight out the box. Taking you back to
the big picture, skills are modular
components. The orchestrator then is
just chaining them together into skill
systems and we have a specific skill
system creator to create them in exactly
the same format every time. Now, this is
what's going to give you the real
leverage when you're working in cycllo
code rather than building out those mega
skills or keeping your skills isolated
and very manual. And if we just revisit
this diagram, the agentic OS or your
clawed operating system is not the
dashboard. And all of these goals apart
from this one is probably going to be
solved by Anthropic in the next few
months. So if you're going to focus your
time on anything, make sure that it's
making these repeatable processes with
consistent high-quality outputs. And you
can do that by chaining your skills
together and building your skills in the
right way. So in the next video, I'm
going to walk you through our full
agentic operating system setup, the file
architecture underneath, how context
flows between skills, and how we inject
the right context into our skill systems
without the high effort. And if you want
the skill systems or skill system
creator, we're shipping inside the
Aentic Academy. They will come
pre-built, plugandplay, install and run
with a few commands. Then the link is
inside the description. As you've seen,
we've just launched our first four skill
systems and are voting on what workflow
problem to solve next right now. Thanks
for watching. Give it a like and
subscribe. It really helps improve my
content. See you in the next one.